Carroll was convicted in 2004 for
the murders of 14 young women.
We need you in Virginia. Ryan.
RYAN: I'm not an agent anymore.
You caught Carroll. No
one knows him like you do.
- So. what's my sequel about. Joe?
- We're gonna write this together. Ryan.
Even though you slept with my wife. I
have so many surprises waiting for you.
He fancies himself Edgar Allan Poe.
That was the impetus for his novel.
- We got more bodies.
- He removed the eyes. Carroll's signature.
He used this prison guard to gain
access to the Internet to create a cult.
- Agent Parker's taking the lead.
- Cults. My specialty.
Ice pick lady. Gay
neighbors. The nanny.
How do they figure
into your new plot?
Where is he? Joey?
Where's my son?
- Carroll knows where the kid is.
- He's not gonna tell us.
Might tell his wife.
You son of a bitch.
Where's my son?
"Take thy beak
from out of my heart
And take thy form
from off my door!"
Quoth the raven. "Nevermore."
And the raven never flitting
Still is sitting.
still is sitting
If you don't like the piece.
call my editor. scream at him.
It is too early for this
crap. You have a nice day.
That lies floating on the floor
Shall be lifted - nevermore!
Whoa. What the hell? Hey.
Good morning. Claire.
- Good morning. ma'am.
- Is Ryan Hardy here?
No. ma'am. he left
over an hour ago.
How'd you sleep? The motel they
stuck us in sucks. The bed is bricks.
- How many fingerprints?
- Nine. in total.
Several were older prints.
but upstairs in the attic room...
that is where we found six sets.
They're the newest ones we found. I'm
guessing that's where they gathered most.
Four of the sets belong to
Emma. Jacob. Paul and Jordy.
Yeah. That's four. And the guy
with the Poe mask that attacked me.
- Five.
- You really think this cult...
is limited to six people?
We weren't supposed to
find their little clubhouse.
I tell you. there's gotta be something
here to tell us where Joey Matthews is.
Mm-mm. I've been
through every piece.
Nothing points to where
he is or why they took him.
I don't understand what this cult is
about. I mean. what's Carroll's message?
Koresh. Jones. Manson all used
mind control to reinforce their message...
of unity over the individual.
Didn't Manson convince his
family to kill for his means?
Yeah. but he dressed it up
in several motives at once.
He'd test his followers with acts of
murder in order to prove their devotion.
He's a brilliant manipulator.
Get anyone to do anything.
Joe was a teacher. He was a man
of ideas. And he was brilliant at it.
I witnessed him in class. He could
engage and inspire his students...
in ways that I had
never seen before.
Hester had broken
free from all of that.
She had created
her own moral code.
Are we not able to break
free and do whatever we want?
As long as we are willing
to pay life's consequences.
What is your moral code?
Make it unique unto yourself...
and it will bleed
into your writing.
Yeah.
Thank you.
How's your bedside
manner? Jordy's awake.
Hey. Jordy. How you feeling?
How am I feeling? You shot me.
Yeah. I'm sorry about that.
Tell us where Joey Matthews is.
Oh. is that all?
Do you think I'm stupid?
I'm not talking.
- I think you're looking at the death penalty.
- I'll never make it to the chair.
I'm a correctional officer. I
won't last a week in prison.
But can I tell
you a little secret?
It was worth it.
To kill those girls. To hold
them in my hands when they died.
- I felt their last breath.
- You know I talked to Joe. right?
He was very upset to find out that
you were still alive. He wanted you dead.
You failed. You were supposed to kill
Claire Matthews. Weren't those the rules?
I know what you're doing.
It's not going to work.
Come on. Jordy. Where's Joey?
La. la. la. I can't hear you.
Look at what's happened to me
Come on. Just tell us
where... Just tell us...
Suddenly I'm up
on top of the world
Jordy. Jordy.
Should've been somebody else
Aah! PARKER: Hey.
- Sorry. I slipped.
- You can't do that.
You can't do that.
Hey. Hey. No. no...
Sorry for the shaky
cam. It's from a cell.
What are we watching?
Street performance by a man dressed
as Poe this morning. Recognize the mask?
- He was doing this on the street?
- It's very common. It's the historical district.
Here it comes.
Hey. wait. Who's the victim?
Stan Fellows. Book critic.
Yeah. Richmond paper. I know this
guy. I interviewed him for my book.
He wrote a scathing review of Carroll's
book. The Gothic Sea. The worst I read.
Suspect threw confetti on
the crowd. It's got writing on it.
"Generous critic fanned the poet's fire.
Taught the world with reason to admire."
That's Poe.
So Carroll wants his followers
to exact revenge on his critics?
That could take a while.
The recent string of murders in the
wake of Joe Carroll's prison escape...
is raising all kinds of speculation.
Is this the work of a cult?
- Authorities refuse to comment...
- The press is officially calling us a cult.
The FBI won't confirm it so they've
issued a media blackout. Heh.
That's because they're completely
clueless. Have you talked to Emma?
- No. No. why?
- Things are weird between you guys.
And to be fair. you haven't
been that nice to her.
- Is that Rick? Heh. Awesome.
- He's everywhere today.
Look. here's some
cool footage of the fire.
So Torch Man is a hit.
huh? I knew it would work.
If you hate blood so much.
what about fire? It's flashy.
- I don't hate blood.
- What about removing the eyes?
- You can't do that with fire.
- Actually. you can. doofus.
What Jordy means is. the
eyes are Joe's signature.
And fire doesn't go with gouging eyes.
- You're being literal.
Besides. we're supposed to find our
own voice. Not just copy Joe's story.
Doofus deux.
But I like Joe's story.
Then have at it. Jordy. You
do it your way. I'll do it mine.
- Just talk to Emma. okay?
- You don't see it. do you?
I mean. that girl
wears a lot of faces.
And I don't get the Emma you get.
- What Emma is that. Paul?
- Oh. we were just talking...
- Don't cover for him.
He has something to say.
Forget it.
Got him. It's a business owner downtown
with a security camera two blocks away.
- Did you get a license plate?
- Way ahead.
Car is registered to Rick
Kester. he's 29.120 Church Hill.
This room's clear.
Clear. PARKER: Hey.
- Please don't hurt me. PARKER:
We're not gonna hurt you.
- Who are you?
- Maggie Kester. I live here.
- You know Rick Kester?
- Yes. I do. He's my husband.
Thank you for
agreeing to talk to us.
I don't wanna stay
in that house alone.
- When'd you last hear from your husband?
- Last night. He called. I didn't pick up.
We're separated. Six months now.
Um...
Seven-fifteen. He
didn't leave a message.
- Why were you hiding from us?
- I didn't know it was you. I was scared.
He still has a key. He's been bothering
me and calling me. showing up at work.
Rick can be scary
when he wants to be.
We pulled your records
and your story checks out.
But I'm curious about this
police report that you filled out...
couple years back in
the emergency room.
Why did your
husband try to kill you?
- Ah. I asked him for a divorce.
- So he took a knife to you?
They never pressed charges. I
wouldn't testify because he was sorry.
- He was. He wasn't always like this.
- When did you notice a change?
He lost his job and
had all this free time...
- and started hanging out with new friends.
- Did you meet any of them?
No. I didn't want anything to do with
them. He'd come home with weird ideas...
- and saying crazy things.
- What things?
He started talking a lot about
death and how life didn't matter.
He got really dark.
He was depressed.
We're going to give you protection
until we find your husband. Excuse me.
So you believe her?
Yeah. I do. She's tragic and
pathetic and I know her well.
- How so?
- She wants the man in her head...
not the one she married. She's my
mother. my sister. my other sister.
No one ever wants to
see what's really there.
We need to find the husband.
He's the closest thing to finding Joey.
Why don't you let me see
Joe? See if I can get him to talk.
Let me try. I think it's
time Joe and I met anyway.
What do you want. Paul?
Do you need any help?
No.
Look. I'm sorry about before
and whatever I've done.
But we're all in this together and
I don't want things to be like this.
- I don't either. Paul.
- Can we sort of pretend...
that we like each other
and see where that goes?
Truce.
- Bitch.
- Don't try to turn Jacob against me.
It won't work.
Bitch.
Hi. I'm Agent Parker.
We haven't officially
met. How's your hand?
First of all. awesome
job. I'm very impressed.
Heh. How much
planning did all this take?
Seriously. you are
doing a great job.
Thank you. For my book.
You're welcome.
Why torture critics?
That seems a little petty.
Oh. dear. Has someone
been playing with matches?
I like fire. sir. It started when
I was a kid and it just stuck.
I'm not good at knives. I've
been practicing. getting better.
But I still prefer fire.
Definitely makes a
statement. Tell me more.
Poe often wrote of revenge. I want
my chapter to be about revenge.
I want to target people
who hurt you professionally.
I've done my research.
I know who they are.
I'm not above revenge.
agent. I think I've proved that.
Revenge is primal. It's a universal
theme. And every good story needs one.
Don't you agree. Ryan?
Of course. his theme
is somewhat different.
So your acolytes come up with ways to
make you proud with these little tributes.
- That how they're helping write your book?
- Everyone has a story to tell. agent.
Your little devotee. is he
gonna torch all your critics?
There are really only three
people that I hold accountable...
for my professional
downfall. agent.
Isn't that right. Ryan?
I wonder who he holds
accountable for his downfall.
It must be very hard for you...
to be surrounded by
the stench of death again.
I know this takes a
terrible toll on you.
And you must be careful...
what with that
little heart of yours.
What are you doing?
Three people are responsible
for Joe's downfall. His words.
That would be me.
the dead critic...
and this guy.
He was a professor at the university.
I interviewed him. He was a dean.
After Joe's book failed. this guy denied
him tenure. Said that Joe wasn't worthy.
It was a big blow to Joe's career.
Phillip Barnes. Dean of Literature.
Do you think
he's still the dean?
As far as I know.
This was years ago.
May I help you? Did we
have an appointment?
Why did you deny
Joe Carroll tenure?
- I beg your pardon?
- I asked you a question.
Is this a joke?
I'm sorry. you
need to leave. Oh.
No. you need to sit.
Why did you deny
Carroll tenure? Answer me.
I've never killed anyone
with a knife before.
The press is using the "cult" word.
It's out there. Can you comment?
No. let them speculate.
Where's Ryan?
He went outside.
There's no way you
could have stopped this.
Yeah. I could have. You see.
that's the point. He's baiting me.
I should have seen it coming.
Why? Because you interviewed
him eight years ago? Seriously?
You know Carroll's
out to torture you.
Well. it's working.
- Professor Carroll. Hi. I'm Ryan Hardy. FBI.
- Hmm?
Yes. my wife said to expect you.
It's a pleasure. How can I help?
I was hoping to pick your
brain on a case I'm working on.
Oh. the murders. Yes.
Oh. gosh. Awful. Poor girls.
No. I'd relish the opportunity.
I don't mean relish. I mean...
It's not every day one gets to aid
the FBI in a murder investigation. is it?
- Now a good time?
- I'm afraid not. I'm late for an appointment.
But. uh. just call my office.
I'm free every night this week.
I'll do that. Thank you. sir.
Please. call me Joe.
Nice to meet you.
All right. get in closer. Smile.
- How is it?
- I don't like it. One more.
- All right. One. two. three.
- Can I call Mom now?
No. you cannot
and stop asking me.
We can't pretend to be gay.
Sarah Fuller has major issues. She's
not gonna warm up to a straight guy...
the way she would to a totally
non-threatening gay couple.
Yeah. I don't know.
Joe thinks it's a great idea.
- But we're straight.
- Details.
Come on. Expand your minds.
Let's try it. Kiss.
- What. now?
- Let's see if you can pull it off.
- No. no. No way. No way.
- You guys are losers.
So what am I gonna tell Joe?
Okay. okay. Let's do this.
Come on. Gay chicken.
What's wrong with him?
- Hey. What do you think you're doing?
- Get away.
Come on. man. Don't do this.
And where you going. huh?
Hey. Your face is all over the
news right now. Don't be stupid.
You're a liar.
Authorities have yet to confirm or deny
any cult activity surrounding Joe Carroll.
So does the coffee
work as an equalizer?
That's the idea. Got Rick
Kester's records. Just came in.
Take a look at this.
Wait.
A critic for the
Richmond Herald is dead.
The assailant. a street
performer. is currently at large.
- Eyewitnesses caught the image
on camera. CLAIRE: Come in.
Excuse me.
- Claire?
- I'm watching the news. What's happening?
Listen. We have a suspect.
I need to ask you something.
- The man who's starting the fires?
- Right.
I've just got his credit
card statements...
and. uh. there's a couple of items
that I just need to confirm with you.
All-pro sponge ball. Ridley race
car set. A Dragon Ninja warrior...
Action figure. yeah. Those are all
Joey's favorite toys. What's going on?
This is good news. Claire. They
bought him toys. They're not hurting him.
I want him home. He's not
gonna be safe until he's home.
I know. I gotta go.
I'll call you later.
okay? Bye-bye.
Bye.
- I've been here all day. Can I go?
- Soon.
Any idea why your husband
would purchase toys?
I don't know. Uh. it's his credit
card. You'll have to ask him.
It's Rick.
Answer it. Put him
on speaker phone.
Rick?
Where are you?
The FBI came to the house.
Rick. What have you done?
- Are you with them
now? MAGGIE: Yes.
Yes. They're looking for
you. Rick. You're in trouble.
How could you hurt those people?
Where is he?
Where are you. Rick?
Is Ryan Hardy there?
Tell Ryan it was all for him.
He's using the same setup as your Internet.
It's routed internationally. Can't trace it.
What do you think? Will
he try and make contact?
I don't know. Take her home. Stay with her.
I'll send someone to relieve in the morning.
- I'll go with her.
- What you're gonna do...
is go back to that motel the
FBI put us in and get some rest.
- I'm fine. PARKER:
When's the last time...
you had more than an hour of
sleep? Go and get some sleep. Ryan...
and tomorrow we're gonna
find Joey. Do you understand?
Look. I get it.
You over-identify with the victims.
the guilt makes it personal. you unravel.
I get it.
You okay?
Not going back to the
hotel to sleep. are you?
I think Rick Kester
knows where Joey is.
Well. they gave me a rental car.
Joey's in his room. He
thinks we got into a little fight.
- Paul just needed to blow off some steam.
- Our faces are all over the news.
- And what if he goes into town?
- I know Paul.
Okay? Heh. He's not
gonna go into town.
- Did you send that e-mail?
- Not yet. I was waiting for Rick to call.
Why is no one doing what
they're supposed to do?
Damn it.
Excuse me. Megan?
- Where would I find the wine?
- Oh. we don't sell wine.
All we have is
beer. It's the law.
Well. I really wanted wine.
Um...
So. uh. red or white?
Go with the red.
And. uh. what
time do you get off?
Do you really think
he's gonna come here?
We just want to keep
you safe. that's all.
Do what you normally do.
Pretend I'm not even here.
Uh...
Help yourself to the fridge.
- Yo.
- Hardy and I are outside.
What? Does Parker know?
Yeah.
Do you really think Kester would
be stupid enough to come here?
He's killed two people today.
He's escalating. he's getting
bolder. Be outside if you need us.
Yeah.
Does Parker know we're here?
She told me to watch you.
Look. I know you march to your own
drum and everything and that's cool.
Maybe someday I can...
but I'm the second-youngest agent in
the BAU and people still look at me funny.
This is my career. sir.
- You still live in Brooklyn?
- Yeah.
You ever make it up to Albany?
I read your book. I
know you grew up there.
Not for years.
There's no reason.
Right.
Your family...
Sorry. Um. I'm a military brat.
- Born in San Diego. I've lived everywhere...
- I'm gonna look around. stretch my legs.
Ryan. good to see
you. Come on in.
I'm afraid it's only me tonight.
Claire's out with the little one.
- Can I get you a drink?
- No. I'm fine. thanks.
My God. This is the moment
when it all becomes very real.
Your wife mentioned Edgar Allan
Poe as a reference for the eyes.
What makes you think your killer
has a greater literary purpose?
There's a sophistication to the murders.
The way the bodies were handled...
and displayed.
There's a romance to it.
Poe's eye allegories
would certainly fit.
You'll find his. uh. symbolism
full of haunting romance. Here.
Wow. great. Thanks a lot.
- I'll get this right back to you.
- No. no. Don't you dare. This is...
This has been a treat for me. Heh.
Now. please. may I offer you a drink?
Heh. All right. sure. yeah.
Whatever you're drinking.
I need a breather.
And more wine.
Sure.
We're not having sex. okay?
Let's just take that off the table.
Okay.
Oh. my God. that hurt.
Were you just choking me?
No. No. of course not.
We should get
going. It's getting late.
- But...
- I need to get home.
Okay.
Wait. Let me get
the door for you.
Don't be so happy to see me.
Will you excuse us. please?
I'm not talking to you.
Well. you're gonna have to. I need
some information from you. Jordy.
Believe it or not
I'm walking on air
So I was talking to Joe...
and he wants to see you.
I wanna see him.
I can make that happen. But
I can't if you won't talk to me.
You okay in here?
Yeah. I guess.
Are you married. Agent Riley?
Divorced.
Was she a good woman?
She wasn't the problem.
What was that?
Was that inside or outside?
- Yeah.
- You okay?
I'm not sure. There's
someone in the backyard.
I'm coming in.
How do I know you're not lying?
What if I tell you stuff and
you don't let me see Joe?
Character. Jordy. I say what
I mean and I mean what I say.
If you don't like the stuff I
tell you do I get to see Joe?
Just talk to me. Jordy.
I'll let you see Joe.
I don't know where the kid is.
- Oh. come on. Jordy...
- I don't.
We divide the secrets so no
one person knows everything...
in case one of us gets caught.
So who has Joey?
Emma and Jacob and Paul. But I don't
know where they are and that's the truth.
Can I see Joe now?
- Does Rick know where Joey is?
- I don't know. But his wife does.
- What?
- Maggie.
She and Emma planned that part.
Something's up. Hello.
- You lied!
- It's Parker.
Jordy just told me Maggie
Kester is one of them. She's lying.
Maggie is one of them.
Maggie. You're
getting a message.
What does it say?
It says:
"Now."
What the...?
- Are you okay?
- You went too deep.
Oh. my God. I'm so sorry.
- You lose.
- You suck at games.
- He sucks at knives.
- All right. who's next? Truth or dare.
- Guys. she needs a hospital.
- What?
- Oh. my God. baby. I'm so sorry.
Baby. I'm so sorry.
There's no time. We have to go.
Get an ambulance.
- Here. Hold pressure on this.
- Okay. okay. Hold on. I got it.
Hey. Troy. Look at
me. You'll be okay.
Stop. Stop.
Please. Please.
he's gonna kill me.
I don't think so. Maggie.
No!
What is that?
What the hell?
Hey. guys. this is Megan.
Megan. this is Emma and Jacob.
- Who is she?
- She's a friend.
And she's gonna be
staying with us for a while.
You have lost your mind.
- I'm done listening to her.
- Hey. I'll take care of this.
Go check on Joey.
Go.
- What are you doing. Paul?
- I'm tired of being the third wheel.
And now I'm not.
I know you're mad at me right now
but you can't ruin things for everyone.
Does Emma know
what a liar you are?
We promised we
wouldn't tell anyone.
Especially Emma.
I drank too much. Sarah's
gonna think I'm a drunk.
- Are you kidding? She loves you.
- You had a few too many too. you know that?
You are so touchy-feely
when you drink.
- Hey. it's for Sarah.
- Mm-hm.
- We gotta look like a real couple.
- Oh. touchy...
Heh-heh. Stop that.
All right. look.
We can't keep her here.
Look. I'll help you take her
into the basement. Okay?
That woman fooled
me today and I am...
mad.
Riley didn't have to die.
Thanks a lot. I'll read
it right away. I promise.
Feel free to hate it.
Everyone else has. Heh.
It's not doing well?
- I think that's the third copy.
- I should give you 20 bucks or something.
- Listen. I really appreciate tonight. Joe.
- If nothing else. it's good scotch.
- It's great scotch.
- Hmm.
You know. I've been working
on this case nonstop for months.
Sometimes I just forget to stop
and turn it off for a few hours.
I couldn't turn it
off if I were you.
Must be hard with
friends and family...
when you're running around
trying to chase down the bad guy.
I imagine it. uh.
gets quite lonely.
But the payoff. ah? Heh.
You're helping
people. Saving lives.
Yeah. I think what you do...
is quite remarkable.
One more. huh?
Sure. why not.
Joe fooled me.
I should've known the first time I met
him he was the man I was looking for.
He had this power.
I'm sorry. Joe.
I'm sorry. Joe!
Charm and seduce.
I know what his followers feel.
They're better for
being near him.
He knows how to give them a
little piece of what they're missing.
I fell for it.
And five more girls
were murdered.
I got your message. What is it?
I got an e-mail.
See. if you catch the sun
just right. the bug catches fire.
Why do you wanna kill a bug?
Because we can.
See. if you kill the bug. then it
dies. And your life means a little more.
- I don't understand.
- Look at this little guy.
- Where did you get a cute little mouse?
- Caught him in a trap.
Here. screw the lid on.
It's gotta be real tight.
- Then it's gonna suffocate.
It will die. JACOB: Exactly.
- Here. Screw the lid on.
- I don't want to.
It's okay. sweetie. Go ahead.
Then we watch it
go straight to heaven.
- There you go.
- Good. Joey.
- I've never killed anything
before. JACOB: Heh.
We're just getting started.
They're teaching him.
- Claire. We're going to find him.
- Then do it.
Claire. Claire. wait.
Joey. can you wave to the
camera and say. "Hi. Ryan"?
Who's that?
He's a friend. Come
on. just say it for me.
Hi. Ryan.